---
layout: post
title: dextrose in water
scope: administer
version: pcp/7.1
---

## Generic Name

dextrose in water

## Trade Name

D₅₀W®, D₂₅W®

## Classification

Carbohydrate

## Indications

- Hypoglycemia
- Coma of unknown etiology

## Contraindications

- Inability to initiate an IV/IO
- [Delirium tremens](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Delirium_tremens)
- None in an emergency setting

## Precautions

Head injury patients (\*\*see notes)

## Side effects

- Possible phlebitis and pain to injection site
- Tissue necrosis

## Dose

Adult:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;0.5-1.0g/kg of D₅₀W given SIVP to a max of 25g per single dose.

Pediatric:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;0.5-1.0g/kg of D₂₅W given SIVP

Neonate:  
&nbsp;&nbsp;0.2g/kg of D₁₀W given SIVP (ALS Only)

If a head injury is suspected start with a half dose of 12.5g per single dose, however, do not withold sugar if the blood sugar is below normal ranges in any situation

## Supplied

- D₅₀W is 25 dextrose in 50mL water
- D₅W IV solution bags (ALS Only)

## Mechanism

Dextrose is the main form of sugar utilized in our body for energy. Administration causes a rapid increase in blood glucose levels allowing cells to function properly.

Infusions of medications with D₅W allow the medications to be absorbed more readily by piggybacking onto the dextrose molecule. (ALS Only)

- Onset in <1 min variable
- Peak effect varies
- Duration is based on the level of hypoglycemia
- ½ life is not applicable

## Notes

D₅₀W is extremely necroting. Watch for extravasion, can be irritating to veins. Use large bore IV and large vein for administration.

D₅₀W can be diluted to create D₂₅W

**Should not be used as part of a "coma cocktail". (naloxone, D₅₀W, thiamine, anexate) to correct an altered level of conciousness patient.**
