---
layout: post
title: epinephrine 1:10,000
scope: information-only
version: pcp/7.1
---

## Generic Name

epinephrine 1:10,000

## Trade Name

Adrenalin

## Classification

Sympathomimetic agonist, hormone

## Indications

- Cardiac arrest
- Anaphylaxis
- Severe reactive airway disease
- Symptomatic bradycardia (refractory to atropine)

## Contraindications

- None in an emergency situation
- Hypovolemic shock
- Underlying ischemic cardiovascular disease

## Precautions

Only use 1:10,000 with severe patients

It can be deactivated by alkaline solutions such as sodium bicarbonate and furosemide and therefore the IV line must be flushed between the administration of epinephrine and sodium bicarbonate

Sympathomimetics and phosphodiesterase inhibitors may exacerbate dysrhythmia response.

MAO inhibitors may potentiate the effects of epinephrine.

## Side effects

- Palpitations
- Hypertension
- Dyspnea
- Anxiety
- Tremors
- Headache
- Dizziness
- Nausea/vomiting
- Increased myocardial oxygen demand

## Dose

⚠️ ALS Only ⚠️

### Cardiac arrest:

**Adult**:&nbsp;&nbsp;0.1mg IV/IO q3-5min.  
**Pediatric**:&nbsp;&nbsp;0.01mg/kg IV/IO q3-5min, 0.1mg/kg ETT

### Anaphylaxis:

**Adult**:&nbsp;&nbsp;0.1mg IV/IO q5-15min.  
**Pediatric**:&nbsp;&nbsp;0.01mg/kg IV/IO q5-15min

## Supplied

10mL preloads (0.1mg/mL)

## Mechanism

Epinephrine works by binding to **α** and **ß** adrenergic receptors causing a stimulant response.

The most prominent actions are on the **ß** receptors of the heart, vascular and other smooth muscle. 20% **α** and 80% **ß**.

Rapid IV injection produces a rapid rise in blood pressure, mainly systolic by direct stimulation of the cardiac muscle which increases the ventricular contraction.

Epinephrine relaxes the smooth muscles of the bronchi and is a physiologic antagonist of histamine, therefore reversing Histamine's effects.

Increased systemic vascular resistance  
\+ Chronotropic effects  
\+ Inotropic effects  
\+ Dromotropic effects

- Onset in < 2 min IV/IO
- Peak effects within 5 min IV/IO
- Duration of 5 - 10 min IV/IO
- ½ life of 5 min

## Notes

Can be prepared by mixing 1mg 1:1,000 into 9mL of NS

Monitor vitals continuously
